[MUSIC]
In this video,
we complete our little game engine.
We can hook everything up so
that when the player pushes a key,
we go to the next room, and then another
key takes us to another room, and so on.
We can loop through all that, our game
states that we have at the moment, and
give the player an adventure,
a choose your own adventure.
So I'm pretty excited about where
we'll be at the end of this video,
let's jump in and get cracking.
I'm gonna create a little loop here, with
the states that we've got at the moment,
starting state is leading to room one,
and to and from room one.
I'm gonna say you can go to room two and
starting state,
and from room two we'll see you
can room one and starting state.
Just so we've got a little loop here.
This is not how we would necessarily make
a game, although you know it might be
fun to go round and round in circles,
confuse our player.
Now, let's jump over into
adventure.game.cs our script in here.
We're going to add a way to
manage our state, to have our
state where the player can say, here is
the next state that I choose to go to.
So within update, we're going to call
a method that we ill call Manage State.
And you can see there's a red
squiggly line, because we haven't yet
created our managed state method,
but we'll do that now.
If you right-click and go to quick
actions and refactorings, this is on PC.
We have an extra step where we
need to click generate method.
On the Mac I believe there
isn't this extra step,
you can just generate a method
straight away, if we click on that.
When I say straight away, I mean without
having to do that extra step in there.
So either way, if you're right-clicking,
look for refactoring or
generate method, if you're on the Mac.
And we now have,
it's been created for us down here,
private void ManageState and
throw new, not implementing exception.
This is a way of saying, hey I yeah,
you haven't actually put
anything inside your method yet.
But this gives us
the structure of the method.
It's just a quicker way,
instead of having to type out
all these other bits and pieces.
And you can see that its added
automatically private, that's good for us.
It's a reminder that we can only use this
method within this particular class,
which is all that we need to do.
Now, I'm gonna delete this first line,
we don't need this.
And start off by declaring
a variable within this method.
That we can use to keep track of
what the next states currently ask.
I'm gonna type the keyword var and
then nextStates as our variable =
state.GetNextStates and
brackets, semicolon.
Okay, so
let's explain what I've done here.
As we did previously when we were calling,
where were we doing that?
Up here,
we're calling state.getstatesstory.
Here we're calling state.getnextstate.
So we're looking in our state script, and
get next state is going to
return what the next states are.
And it'll return that as an array.
Now you might be saying why use var,
why aren't you using array
as our type in here?
If you mouse over var,
you'll see that visual studio
knows that this is of
type state as an array.
We could've typed in here state,
and now square brackets and
it will be just as happy
as exactly the same thing.
We can use var as our keyword,
as a shortcut,
as a quick way of typing it
when our variable is declared,
and also initialized.
If we were to go, what's another example,
if we got and we say text component.
We know, we're telling it,
it's of type text.
However, if I was to say var in here, and
leave it at that,
then Visual Studio wouldn't be very happy.
It's like, I don't know what var means,
do you mean this is a string?
Do you mean this is a float?
I've got no idea,
cuz you've given me no context.
I'll undo that, and scroll back
down to our method down the bottom.
Within our method,
it's common practice to just say var,
rather than trying to stop and figure out,
hang on a minute, what type of variable
is this, because Visual Studio knows.
Okay, I know that you're an array
because this method is using an array,
is returning an array, so
that's what nextStates is.
So just wanted to explain why we're
using var as our keyword there.
There's a different option too,
and I'm sure as you're bouncing around the
Internet you'll see var used quite often,
and just make sure you're using
it In a way that makes sense.
Now we're gonna create an if statement if,
and
we've done this before
in the previous section.
If import, what is it?
Get key down, get key down exactly
the same as we've done previously.
And key code,
now what are we looking for here?
We'll say type in key code dot hmm,
what are we looking at?
Now you can see we've
got our options here.
After we've typed dot,
it will in visual studio show us
all of different key codes that
we could potentially select.
I'm looking for button number one,
key number one on the keyboard, and
I know that is alpha one.
So I can double click on alpha 1 and
that will be our keycode,
that will be the key
that needs to be pressed.
So we've done this before input.keydown,
keycode alpha1.
So if that, what do we want to do?
Well we want to redefine or
change what state is a sinus,
okoli state is starting state.
If I push button number one, table
covering here from the starting state.
If I push button number
one which is element zero.
Now it's a little bit confusing, but
the player is not gonna see elements 0,
element 1, they just gonna see
the option of hey, push 1 for
this and push 2 for that.
The players don't really understand
when we say, push 0 for this and
push 1 for that.
Cuz players aren't thinking,
the way that us programmer brained
people are thinking at the moment.
Okay, so
element is gonna be button number 1 and
takes us to room 1, and
that's a new state.
So, that's what we're doing in here.
We're saying state, let me click in
here properly, we're saying state.
Instead of state being startingState,
which is what it was when we first started
our game, makes sense, it's startingState.
Now, state needs to be next states and
we're looking for
within our array,
we're looking for the element 0.
And as we established here,
element 0 is going to be our
first state and then semicolon.
And now we need to create another couple
of conditions, so if the player pushes
button number two, it takes them to
that state or button number three.
So I had three states in total.
We could have one state, or ten states,
or a hundred states it is up to us, but
if we have too many, I think it will make
our game design a little too complex.
At any point in time the player
can have up to three options.
So that's the challenge, is to complete,
they managed state method the way
in the middle of creating.
Add 2 more conditions to
respond to the player,
when they press either 2 or
3 we've created when they press 1.
So, what you need to do
when they press 2 or 3, and
remember the difference between if,
else if and else.
When you are creating this,
we start off with an if, and
just remember that there is a difference
between if, else if and else.
Okay, so there's your challenge, pause
the video, jump in and take that on now.
Welcome back.
Pretty straightforward if you were paying
attention in the previous section.
We need to have else if as our condition
cuz, we don't want the player to
accidentally be pushing Button 1 and
Button 2, at the same time.
So instead of just doing else,
we're doing else if.
And then what is it?
It's Input.GetKeyDown.
The key code, whoops,
KeyCode, will be Alpha2.
And then what happens in that instance?
Well, state will equal nextStates, and
it will be our element 1,
as the second option in there.
And then one more else if, so we'll do
three of these, all up, GetKeyDown.
Again, keyCode, keyCode.Alpha3.
Yes and then out state =
nextStates[2], element 2.
Okay, now we have managed states,
there's one final step in here.
This will be a mini mini
micro challenge for you,
is what do we need to do so
that we can see this on our screen.
If you look through the flow here,
if we were to play this right now we'd
push a button, and nothing would happen.
Nothing sensible would happen.
We need a way of presenting to the player,
within our text field here,
this is the new state.
And the way we do that is to say
textComponent exactly the same
as the line that we've got at
the top here, textComponent.text
= state.GetStateStory.
Why is it GetStateStory?
Well, we need to be presenting what the
story will be to the player, and we need
to be adding that into the text component,
the text field that we have in our game.
So let's save, jump back over into unity,
press play, and
all going to plan, we should have
ourselves a nice little game loop.
Just open my window here a little bit.
So from our starting state if I
hit keyboard one or keyboard two,
it will take me to Room 1 or Room 2.
So I hit one, okay,
it takes me to Room 1, great.
From here if I was to click on, say,
one again, that should take me to Room 2,
that does.
And then if I'm on a room 2, if I click
on button number 2, key number 2,
that should take me
back to starting state.
Great!
So I can bounce around through
my different states, excellent!
We've got ourselves a little game engine,
an adventure game, a game engine,
this is wonderful, very excellent.
In the next video we are going to talk
a little more about the design, and
the store, and the flow, and
how to visualize all of your content.
So you can design it and then
incorporate it, and bring it into Unity.
For now, well done,
great work on working through some of
the trickier concepts in this section.
You're doing absolutely amazingly.
And I'll see you in the next video.